So right now we have a PWA that
works on iOS, it works on Android,
it works in desktop, and it works offline.
So the PWA is kind of ready.
But we still have some room for
improvement.
For example, let's see if we
can integrate our code better.
Of course,
the opportunities are unlimited, okay?
There are several APIs that we can
actually use, there are APIs for
background execution, but time is limited.
So something that we can do
quickly is to add a share.
So because we are in full screen mode or
standalone mode,
remember that we don't have typically,
on mobile devices at least,
we don't have a browser navigation bar.
So if we have content,
such as the text that we are writing,
sometimes we will not move
that content out of our app.
So creating a share action
is actually a good idea.
I'm here in material icons, the search,
so we can actually search for
an icon, and we have an icon with
a name Share that we can use.
So let's add a new button in
our toolbar to actually share
the contents that we have in our notes.
Back in VSCode, I'm opening the HTML and
I'm looking for the toolbar.
I'm going to duplicate this
line that has a button, Learn,
and we're going to use,
instead of Learn, Share.
And the icon will be also share.
And changing the ID to btnShare.
So let's see that in action.
So now, we can see at the bottom that
we have two buttons, Learn and Share.
And Share will actually trigger
the native share dialog
using one of the new APIs available for
PWAs.
But before, let's click on Learn.
Learn will actually open
frontendmasters.com.
And because it's actually
a URL outside of the scope,
we can see that within our app,
we have an inner browser
with a URL bar at the top,
and the same happens on iOS.
So remember,
every time you link to an external URL,
you will get this inner
browser experience.
Now, let's go back to VSCode and
write the share function.
Opening app.js, within the DOM
content loaded event handler,
we're going to search, For
buttonShare, and
add a click event listener to it.
And what we need to do here is to
actually call navigator.share.
This is a new API that might
not be available on every OS.
So we should be able also to
check if the API is not there.
And if it's not there,
maybe we can show a message or
just disable the button or
remove the button from the DOM.
So navigator.share receives
an object with some data.
It can have a title, such as I can
use the name of my app for the title.
Remember that in the manifest,
we use Codepad.
So we can say, Codepad.
And then for the text,
I actually need to go and take my notes.
So what I can do,
Is create a noteString here.
NoteString, we can use map, or
I can just do an old fashioned for
loop here in the code.
So I will start empty, and then I'm
going to take for each note of note,
I'm going to concatenate the new string,
that would be the note.
And maybe we can separate with a pipe or
something.
So this is just grades in a text.
So this is actually pretty simple,
you can use navigator.share,
as well, to share files, also,
or images, and also URLs.
So you can add a URL, but
from now I think it's good enough.
And now, we're back in our mobile devices.
If I click Share on Android,
you can see it's opening
the standard share sheet.
And the same happens on iOS.
So we have these kinds of
integration all over the place to
actually connect with
different services in the OS.